

In this assignment you will build a FUSE filesystem driver that will let you mount a 1MB disk image (data file) as a filesystem.
Step 0: Get a dev environment

The FUSE library and tools are not installed on the CCIS Linux server, so for this assignment you should work on a local Linux system. Your submission will be tested on an Ubuntu 16.04 system (which has FUSE version 2.6).

If you cannot get a local Ubuntu VM working at all, email the instructor to request an account on the cs3650 test server.
Step 1: Implement a basic filesystem

You should extend the provided starter code so that it lets you do the following:

    Create files.
    List the files in the filesystem root directory (where you mounted it).
    Write to small files (under 4k).
    Read from small files (under 4k).
    Delete files.
    Rename files. 

This will require that you come up with a structure for how the file system will store data in it's 1MB "disk". See the filesystem slides - especially the original ext filesystem - for inspiration.

Some additional code that might be useful is provided in the "hints" directory in the assignment download. You can use this if you want. Using a block structure and mmap to access the filesystem image file as shown in the "pages.c" file is recommended.
Step 2: Add missing functionality

Extend your filesystem to do more stuff:

    Create hard links - multiple names for the same file blocks.
    Read and write from files larger than one block. For example, you should be able to support fifty 1k files or five 100k files.
    Create directories and nested directories. Directory depth should only be limited by space.
    Remove directories.
    Support metadata (permissions and timestamps) for files and directories. 

Step 3: Report

Write a report.txt. Include at least the following:
What advantages and drawbacks does your filesystem have? How would you improve it if you had more time?
What features did you complete? What is still missing? Did you implement any additional functionality that wasn't required?
Grading

Most of the grade weight is on Step 1 features, with less weight on Step 2 features.

The TAs will be manually testing your submission for requested functionality that isn't fully covered by the automated tests.
To Submit

Submit your filesystem source code in a hw12 directory in a .tar.gz archive.

Don't submit your filesystem image data file or other binary files (run "make clean" before creating your tarball). Don't submit stray dotfiles.
Hints & Tips

    The basic development / testing strategy for this assignment is to run your program in one terminal window and try FS operations on the mounted filesystem in another separate terminal window.
    Read the manual pages for the system calls you're implementing.
    Pull in - To return an error from a FUSE callback, you return it as a negative number (e.g. return -ENOENT). Some things don't work if you don't return the right error codes.
    Read and write, on success, return the number of bytes they actually read or wrote.
    You need to implement getattr early and make sure it's correct. Nothing works without getaddr. The mode for the root directory and hello.txt in the starter code are good default values.
    The functions "dirname" and "basename" exist, but may mutate their argument.
    https://www.cs.hmc.edu/~geoff/classes/hmc.cs135.201109/homework/fuse/fuse_doc.html 

